I welcome to flash for the non geek and
then today's lesson I'm going to show
you how to animate a button around a
stage and when you roll over the button
the button is going to stop when you
roll off the button the button is going
to keep going one quick thing before I
continue if you're in flash cs4 you're
going to do one little thing before you
can continue with this exercise go up to
file publish settings click on the flash
tab and make sure you get flash player
aid in ActionScript two and then once
you do that just hit okay now you should
be all set and if you have any questions
you can email me at info add non-geek
books calm if you want any of the files
for any my video lessons you can go to
non-geek books calm click on the YouTube
button and there should be a page full
of files and stuff i also have a book
for sale it's hardcover digital download
600 pages of just jam pad to information
and it shows you how to create always
cool dynamic flash projects and you
don't have to write in the ActionScript
really cool stuff so here's what we have
we have a background which is an ocean
layer and we're go ahead and lock this
because we're not going to do anything
with that and then we have our balloon
before we do anything we need to convert
this balloon to a button and we do that
by selecting it go to modify convert to
symbol click on button and we're going
to name this balloon button so now that
it's a button we're now going to animate
it and the way we're going to animate it
is by using a motion guide so we're
going to click on the add motion guide
button if you're on flash cs4 you may
have to right-click on the balloon layer
and select classic motion guide but if
you're on a flash cs3 or earlier just
click the add motion guide button and
you'll get this new layer so this new
letter comes up grab your pencil tool
and we're going to draw a circle we're
not going to close the circle we're
going to leave a little gap as you see
there and I'm actually going to zoom in
so you have a better idea what I'm doing
here
so we want this balloon to start here
and we want it to end at the end of the
path line but before we do that we need
to add some frames to our timeline will
go to frame 50 highlight frame 50 for
all three layers right click and go to
insert frame and since the blue needs to
be over here on frame 50 we have to add
a keyframe so right click and frame 50
the balloon layer and go to insert
keyframe and we're going to move this
over next thing we'll do is right-click
any frame between frame one frame 50 in
the balloon layer and go to create
motion tween and you should have your
balloon layer it's pretty nice we're
going to go control test movie to see
how it's going to look on the internet
adds a bit fast the way to slow it down
is by clicking dragging across a bunch
of frames right-clicking go to insert
frame and you notice our time I just got
a lot longer so we can go to control
test movie there we go pretty cool the
next thing we're going to do is we're
going to tell the head of balloon tell
the timeline to stop when the person
rolls over it so we're going to select
it open up the actions panel if you
don't see the actions panel go to window
actions mine's already open am I double
click it and make sure my balloon is
still selected and here's the thing you
got to make sure your script assist is
turned on this is this little button
right here when you click it your window
will should get a little bit tinier so
what we're going to do is we're going to
this balloon to the main timeline to
stop the way we do that is this little
pan over here we scroll down till we see
deprecated actions and double-click
tails target in the target window we're
going to type in underscore level 0 /
this just means main timeline which is
up here that's all this means and we
want it to stop when we roll over the
button so we have to go over here in
this panel go to the global functions
timeline control and double-click stop
so that's it that code is finished
except we don't want it to happen when
the person releases the mouse button we
want this to happen when the person rose
over the balloon so click on release in
the window you'll get this mouse event
window click on rollover drag over and
uncheck release so now we're going to
test if I go into control test movie
boom when we roll over it it stops and
you'll notice that if we had kept it on
release and gotten control test movie
see how it doesn't stop when you roll
over but if you can roll over it and
click it stops that's too tricky there
we go roll over drag over keep like that
now we're going to add one more piece of
code we're going to click on a closing
bracket here and go back down to
deprecated actions tell target type in
underscore level zero again / and ascend
we're going to have a play go to global
functions timeline control and double
click play and there you go now we don't
want this to happen when the person
releases the mouse button we want it to
happen when the person rolls off the
button so click and release go to roll
out dragged out and uncheck release and
now we'll go to control test movie roll
over it stops roll off keeps playing
nice now if your animation is choppy you
may want to go up to modify document
make sure your frame rate is around 30
if it's a 12 you have to change it so
that's it for this exercise hope you
learned something and if you have any
questions you can email me at info at
nine get books calm and hope you check
out my other videos okay see you later